LOGIN Test Cases

General Considerations:

> Although this page doesn't have Registration or Forgot Password page to validate, I'm still considering those hypotethical scenarios, since in the real life they are always gonna be present.

>I will label the cases as Functional and non-Functional as well as Positive or Negative.

> I would use a template with certain format to write test cases but the requirements specifies that I should write them with a .txt extension. So, despite the format requirement is a limitation, I'll be sticking to that.

> You might find some tests that don't apply to this particular Login Page, still I've included them beacuse they apply in real scenarios.


1.  Verify Visibility of all the elements in the page.
2.  Verify that all the links are working.
3.  Verify if a user will be able to login with a valid username and valid password.
4.  Verify if a user cannot login with a valid username and an invalid password.
5.  Verify the login page for both, when the field is blank and Submit button is clicked.
6.  Verify the ‘Forgot Password’ functionality.
7.  Verify the messages for invalid login.
8.  Verify the ‘Remember Me’ functionality.
9.  Verify if the data in password field is masked.
10. Verify if a user is able to login with a new password password is changed.
11. Verify if the login page allows to log in simultaneously with different credentials in a different browser.
12. Verify if the ‘Enter’ key of the keyboard is working correctly on the login page.
13. Verify if a user cannot exceed the specified chars range in each field (Username and Password).
14. Verify the login page by pressing ‘Back button’/'Forward button'. It should allow you to login right after logout.
15. Verify the timeout functionality of the login session.Security.Performance
16. Verify login with different credentials same browser at the same time.
17. Verify login with the same credentials in different browsers at the same time.Security
18. Verify the Login page against SQL injection attack.    Security.
19. Verify SSL certificate.Security.
20. Verify weak passwords.
21. Verify messages for each mandatory field.
22. Verify time taken to log in with a valid username and password.Performance.
23. Verify Login page's CSS and HTML Attributes and Values meet the Client requirements.UI.
24. Verify ‘Cancel’ button available to erase the entered text.    Usability Testing
25. Verify Login page and all its controls in different browsers    Browser Compatibility.
26. Verify the minimum length (say 8 characters) for password field.
27. Verify that Encrypted Password should not be able to be copy-pasted anywhere. Security.
28. Verify that the Password is not being stored in browser cookies. Security.
29. Verify the Number of invalid attempts for username/password.Security.
30. Verify that you're not able to access any page url without first getting to the login. Security.
31. Verify request ID and URL url while processing your request.Security.
32. Verify deletion of ID while browsing.Security.
